## 3. Uninstalling Altibase and Meta Downgrade

This chapter explains how to uninstall an installed or meta downgrade the installed product.

-   [Altibase Product Uninstallation](#uninstalling-altibase-products)

-   [Meta Downgrade](#meta-downgrade)

### Uninstalling Altibase Products

Altibase products can be uninstalled or rolled back using the Uninstaller which is installed with the product. Target files for rollback are only for files that have been patched by the installer, and data files and log files are not included. The Uninstaller associated with a base release (a full package used for initial installation) uninstalls the entire product; the Uninstaller which is installed when a patch is applied can be used either to uninstall the entire product or to roll back the corresponding patch.

!!! warning "Caution"
    On the HP-UX platform, the Uninstaller provided with the Altibase Package Installer can only uninstall the entire product; it cannot rollback patches. Therefore, it is recommended to manually back up the previously installed product before applying a patch.

#### Full Uninstallation

Altibase Products or patches which are installed by the Altibase Package Installer can be uninstalled with the Uninstaller that is provided with the product to be removed.

However, the Uninstaller cannot delete the environment variable. Therefore, the user must manually delete Altibase-related environment variables from the account's environment variable file. To remove Altibase products, perform the following steps:

1.  Select the Uninstaller (e.g., uninstall-base) associated with the product to be removed from the $ALTIBASE_HOME/APatch directory.
    
2.  Run the Uninstaller.

#### Patch Uninstallation

Patches installed using the Altibase Package Installer can be rolled back by running the Uninstaller named according to the convention "uninstall-p<patch_version>". However, only the most recently installed patch can be rolled back. During uninstallation, a patch is removed and the previous version is restored from the backup.

To roll back a patch, perform the following steps:

1.  Select the Uninstaller (e.g., uninstall-p0_0_0_1) associated with the patch to be removed from the $ALTIBASE_HOME/APatch directory
    
2.  Run the Uninstaller.

### Meta Downgrade

This section describes the meta downgrade to roll back other Altibase patches that are meta version.

Altibase requires that the current meta version and meta version of the package user wants to down patch have to match in order to roll back the patch. If the meta version is different when deleting or rolling back the patch, the user must first reconfigure the current version of meta to the old version of the meta. This process is called meta downgrade.

#### How to Use Meta Downgrade

##### Version Check

The current and previous meta version can be checked in SYSTEM_.*SYS_DATABASE* .

The current meta version can be checked by the META_VER, META_MINOR_VER, and META_PATCH_VER columns.

The previous meta version can be checked by PREV_META_MAJOR_VER, PREV_META_MINOR_VER, and PREV_META_PATCH_VER columns.

In order to meta downgrade, the version has to be checked and verified that the version of META_MINOR_VER and PREV_META_MINOR_VER are different as shown below:

```sql
iSQL> SELECT META_MAJOR_VER, META_MINOR_VER, META_PATCH_VER,
 PREV_META_MAJOR_VER, PREV_META_MINOR_VER, PREV_META_PATCH_VER
 FROM SYSTEM_.SYS_DATABASE_;
META_MAJOR_VER META_MINOR_VER META_PATCH_VER 
-------------------------------------------------
PREV_META_MAJOR_VER PREV_META_MINOR_VER PREV_META_PATCH_VER 
----------------------------------------------------------------
8           5           1          
8           4           1          
1 row selected.
```

##### Meta Downgrade

For meta downgrade-able version, perform the meta downgrade with the following syntax: 

```bash
$ server downgrade
```

??? warning "Performing meta downgrade without shutting down the server"
    The user must shut down the server (server stop) before performing the meta downgrade. If the user does perform this without shutting down the server, then the following error with occur: 

    ```bash
      $ server downgrade
       server is running !!!!
       you must shutdown first before server downgrade
      $ server downgrade
      ...
      ...
      ...ISQL_CONNECTION = UNIX, SERVER = localhost
      [ERR-910FB : Connected to idle instance]
      Connecting to the DB server... Connected.

      TRANSITION TO PHASE : PROCESS
     
      TRANSITION TO PHASE : CONTROL
     
      TRANSITION TO PHASE : META
        [SM] Recovery Phase - 1 : Preparing Database
                                : Dynamic Memory Version => Parallel Loading
        [SM] Recovery Phase - 2 : Loading Database 
        [SM] Recovery Phase - 3 : Skipping Recovery & Starting Threads...
                              Refining Disk Table 
        [SM] Refine Memory Table : ....................................................................................................................................... [SUCCESS]
        [SM] Rebuilding Indices [Total Count:138] .......................................................................................................................................... [SUCCESS]
     
      TRANSITION TO PHASE : DOWNGRADE
      Command executed successfully.
    ```

If the meta downgrade fails, it ends as follows: 

```bash
$ server downgrade
...
...
...
TRANSITION TO PHASE : DOWNGRADE
[FAILURE] Unable to initialize the meta database
Startup Failed....
[ERR-91015 : Communication failure.]
```

!!! tip
    If the meta downgrade fails, the user can check the cause of the failure in the altibase.boot.log and altibase.qp.log in $ALTIBASE_HOME/trc directory.

##### Uninstalling Patch

Run the Patch Uninstaller to remove the patch

!!! warning "Cautions when uninstalling patch"
    After performing a server downgrade, the user must delete the patch. If the server is run without deleting the patch, the meta upgrade will occur because the meta version has been modified to the previous version. 

